Dear all,

I understand that you all are interested in attending the short
workshop on using SDSS data on June 3-6. Here is some more information
about what we are going to do.

This workshop is about understanding and interacting with SDSS data.
The goal is to give you the tools to read and understand the data,
allowing you to incorporate those tools into your own programs. By so
doing, this should give you some background to be able to look at any
optical/infrared astronomical data set and begin to understand it.  To
supply this background, we will start by interacting with the data on
a file-by-file basis so you understand its inherent nature, and will
then move on to using more advanced and abstracted tools on the last
day.

We will necessarily cover some basic information on programming and
astronomy, but this workshop is not about programming. and while we'll
cover some of the fundamental details of astronomy to make sure we're
all on the same page (ra, dec, flux, etc) I will assume you understand
the astronomical science context.

It will run from Monday to Thursday, June 3 to June 6. Each day there
will be a morning session from 9:30am to 12pm and an afternoon session
from 1:30pm to 4:30pm.  The mornings will be focused on covering the
material. The afternoon will be spent on exercises with the data and
using it.

I expect you to come in with a laptop which is capable of running
python. It will be easiest if this is a Unix-based system (e.g. a
Linux box or a Mac, with developer tools installed). You should
make sure you have the following python products installed:
 - matplotlib
 - numpy
 - scipy
 - astropy (found at http://astropy.org)
We'll spend some time on the first day making sure everybody is set
up, but it will be much better if you work this out ahead of time. 

Monday topics:
- python basics
- FITS files 
- basic astronomy

Tuesday topic:
- SDSS photometry

Wednesday topic:
- SDSS spectroscopy

Thursday topic:
- Special SDSS data tools
- CASJobs
- The API 

Many thanks,
Mike
